docs/ww-manual/deep-linking.md, before:

---
layout: wasteworks
title: Deep linking from your site
order: 5
user-guide: true
---

# WasteWorks deep linking

Residents will most likely be finding your WasteWorks service from your own website. That may be a generic waste services information page, or another landing page for search terms such as “report missed bin” or “green garden waste”.

### Important notice:
There may be small differences in how WasteWorks functions for different councils, depending on the integrations you have selected, and the individual processes reflected in your workflow. This manual provides a **general overview** of how WasteWorks works, but may not directly reflect your unique set up.

## Generic waste page

On a generic page, you can link directly to the WasteWorks front page with a normal link, or embed a WasteWorks search form into the page, taking the user straight to a “Your bin days” page.

#### Direct Link

Your website will have its own way of adding links.

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/">Check your bin days</a>`

#### Embedded form
An embedded form should be a normal HTML form whose action is `https://your.wasteworks.example/waste` and contains a text input with name `postcode`.

```html <form action="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste">
<label for="postcode">Search term:</label>
<input type="text" id="postcode" name="postcode" value="">
<input type="submit" value="Go">
</form>
```

## Specific waste type page

You may want to be able to direct residents directly to pages within your WasteWorks service.

#### Linking to ‘reporting a missed collection’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=report">Report a missed collection</a>`

#### Linking to ‘request a new container’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=request">Request a new container</a>`

#### Linking to ‘subscribe to green garden waste’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=garden">Subscribe to a green waste collection</a>`

#### Linking to ‘subscribe to bulky waste’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=bulky">Request a bulky waste collection</a>`

Commit message:

[Waste] Updates to user manual.
I have added some more detail to various sections of the admin tasks,
included some extra images to support the guidance and broken down some
aspects to hopefully make it easier to understand.

Edited the resident's experience section to split out the bulky and
green waste booking sections so that they can be explained in more
detail.

docs/ww-manual/deep-linking.md, after:

---
layout: wasteworks
title: Deep linking from your site
order: 5
user-guide: true
---

# WasteWorks deep linking

Residents will most likely be directed to your WasteWorks service from your own website, either from a generic waste services information page, or another landing page for search terms such as “report missed bin” or “green garden waste”.

This section of the manual provides guidance on different ways to deep link to WasteWorks from your website. 

***

## Linking from a generic waste page

On a generic page about your waste services, you can link directly to the WasteWorks front page with a normal link, or embed a WasteWorks search form into the page, taking the user straight to a “Your bin days” page.

#### Direct Link

Your website will have its own way of adding links.

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/">Check your bin days</a>`

#### Embedded form
An embedded form should be a normal HTML form whose action is `https://your.wasteworks.example/waste` and contains a text input with name `postcode`.

```html <form action="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste">
<label for="postcode">Search term:</label>
<input type="text" id="postcode" name="postcode" value="">
<input type="submit" value="Go">
</form>
```

## Linking from a specific waste type page

You may also want to link to WasteWorks from pages about specific waste services, such as a landing page about reporting a missed collection, or one about green waste subscriptions (if included in your WasteWorks package). 

In these instances, you can link directly to the corresponding page on WasteWorks to create a seamless user journey for residents, and for staff operating on behalf of residents who require extra support. See examples below:

#### Linking to ‘reporting a missed collection’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=report">Report a missed collection</a>`

#### Linking to ‘request a new container’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=request">Request a new container</a>`

#### Linking to ‘subscribe to green garden waste’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=garden">Subscribe to a green waste collection</a>`

#### Linking to ‘subscribe to bulky waste’ page

`<a href="https://your.wasteworks.example/waste?type=bulky">Request a bulky waste collection</a>`
