=head1 Customising FixMyStreet

This document explains how to tailor the default installation of
FixMyStreet to your requirements, including limiting the geographic
area it accepts queries for and translating the text.

It also includes information about how to change the design.

=head1 OVERVIEW

FixMyStreet implements a Cobrand system in order to allow customisation
of the default behavior. The Cobrand is made up of a set of templates for
the Cobrand and a Cobrand module that contains code that customises the
way the Cobrand behaves. There are defaults for both of these so the
Cobrand only needs to override things that are specific to it.

Customisations should be implemented like this as this means that any
upgrade to FixMyStreet will not overwrite your changes.

For a cobrand to work then it should have the same name as your site,
e.g if your site is www.FixMyPark.com then your Cobrand should be
called FixMyPark.

The default Cobrand is called Default.

=head1 TEMPLATES

Templates are found in the templates directory. Within that there are
seperate directories for web templates and email templates. Under each
of these there is a directory for each Cobrand. In our FixMyPark example
this would be L<templates/web/fixmypark> for the web templates and
L<templates/email/fixmypark> for the email templates.

The full set of templates is stored in the default Cobrand and if no
equivalent template is found in a Cobrand directory FixMyStreet will
use the default template.

At a bare minimum you will probably want to copy the header and footer
web templates found in L<templates/web/default/header.html> and
L<templates/web/default/footer.html> into your Cobrand and make appropriate
changes.

The other template you should make your own version of is the FAQ which
is in L<templates/web/default/faq-en-gb.html>

=head1 CSS

The CSS is stored in web/css/ under which there are directories for Cobrands
but this is only by custom. The loading of the css is controled by the header
templates. Note that FixMyStreet uses sccs files to generate our CSS so by there
are no CSS files until L<bin/make_css> has been run.

The CSS provided with FixMyStreet uses CSS3 media queries in order to adapt
the layout to work on different devices.

The CSS is structured into two main files:

=over

=item core.css

This contains all the styling for the content of the pages. This should not
need changed unless you are significantly changing the layout of the site.

=item main.css

This contains the CSS for the header and footer as well as the colour scheme.

=back

=head1 Cobrand modules

Much of the rest of the customisation takes place in the Cobrand modules. These
are automatically loaded according to the current Cobrand and can be found in
L<perllib/FixMyStreet/Cobrands/>. There is a default Cobrand ( Default.pm ) which
all Cobrands should inherit from. A Cobrand module can then override any of the
methods from the default Cobrand.

FixMyStreet uses the hostname of the current request along with the contents
of the C<ALLOWED_COBRANDS> config option to determine which cobrand to use.
C<ALLOWED_COBRANDS> is a list of cobrand names with an optional hostname match.
override. If there is no hostname override then the first cobrand name that
matches all or part of the hostname of the current request is used. If there is
a hostname override then that is compared against the hostname of the current
request. For example if C<ALLOWED_COBRANDS> is

    ALLOWED_COBRANDS:
        - fixmypark_fr: 'fr.fixmypark'
        - fixmypark

then a request to www.fixmypark.com will use the fixmypark cobrand but a
request to fr.fixmypark.com will use fixmypark_fr. If no Cobrand listed in
C<ALLOWED_COBRANDS> matches then the default Cobrand will be used.

This means you can provide multiple Cobrands for the site if you require, e.g.
for providing different languages, and FixMyStreet will use the first match
listed in C<ALLOWED_COBRANDS>.

Many of the functions in the Cobrand module are used by FixMyStreet in the UK
to allow the site to offer versions localised to a single authority and should
not be needed for most installs. Listed below are the most useful options that
can be changed.

=over

=item site_title

This should be set to the name of your site.

=item country

This should be set to the two letter ISO code for the country your site is for.

=item disambiguate_location

This is used by the Geocoding module of FixMyStreet to constrain the area for
which results are returned when locating an address. It should return a hash
reference of parameters that are compatible with the arguments of the geocoding module
you are using.

At a most basic level it should limit it to the country you are in:

    sub disambiguate_location {
        return {
            country => 'uk',
        };
    }

You can limit it to a smaller area using bounding boxes to contrain the area
that the geocoder will consider:

    sub disambiguate_location {
        return {
            centre => '52.688198,-1.804966',
            span   => '0.1196,0.218675',
            bounds => [ '52.807793,-1.586291', '52.584891,-1.963232' ],
        };
    }

The centre and span are used by the Google geocoding API and the bounds by
Bing.

Note that these areguments are only as good a limiting results as the API
that they are used by.

=item geocode_postcode

This function is used to convert postcodes entered into a latitude and 
longitude. If the text passed is not a valid postcode then an error should
be returned. If you do not want to use postcodes and always use a geocoding
service then always return an error.

If the postcode is valid and can be converted then the return value should
look like this:

    return { latitude => $latitude, longitude => $longitude };

If there is an error it should look like this:

    return { error => $error_message };

=item find_closest and find_closest_address_for_rss

These are used to provide information on the closest street to the point of
the address in reports and rss feeds or alerts.

=item allow_photo_upload

Return 0 to disable the photo upload field.

=item allow_photo_display

Return 0 to disable the display of uploaded photos.

=item area_types

If you are using MaPit alongside FixMyStreet this should return a
list of the area type codes that the site will handle. This is used
to filter the data returned from MaPit so that only appropriate areas are
displayed.

=item remove_redundant_councils

This is used to filter out any overlapping jurisdictions from MaPit results
where only one of the authorities actually has reponsability for the events
reported by the site. An example would be be a report in a city where MaPit
has an id for the city council and the state council but problems are only
reported to the state. In this case you would remove the id for the the city
council from the results.

=item short_name

This is used to turn the full authority name returned by MaPit into a short
name.

=back

=head1 Translations and Language

The translations for FixMyStreet are stored as gettext files and the
language for a Cobrand is set in the C<set_lang_and_domain> call of
the Cobrand module.

The templates use the C<loc> method to pass strings to gettext for
translation.
